README.md, before:

# Zest Playwright Test Framework

Advanced Playwright test framework with automatic screenshots, custom reporting, and Zephyr Scale integration.

## ✨ Features

- 📸 **Automatic Screenshots** - Capture screenshots after each test step
- 📊 **Custom JSON Reports** - Detailed test results with step information
- 🔄 **Zephyr Scale Integration** - Automatically update test results in Zephyr
- ⚙️ **Type-Safe Configuration** - Configure behavior via `zest.config.ts`
- 🎯 **Step-by-Step Tracking** - Detailed information about each test step
- 🖼️ **Base64 Screenshots in Reports** - Screenshots embedded directly in JSON

## 🚀 Quick Start

### 1. Install the Package

```bash
npm install --save-dev @zest-pw/test
```

### 2. Configuration

The configuration file `zest.config.ts` will be automatically created in your project root after installation. If it wasn't created automatically, run:

```bash
npx zest-pw-init
```

The default configuration:

```typescript
import { defineZestConfig } from '@zest-pw/test';

export default defineZestConfig({
  reporter: {
    saveJsonReport: true,
    printToConsole: true,
    outputDir: 'test-results',
  },
  screenshots: {
    enabled: true,
    includeInReport: true,
    onlyOnFailure: false,
  },
  zephyr: {
    enabled: false,
    updateResults: false,
  },
});
```

### 3. Configure Playwright

Update your `playwright.config.ts`:

```typescript
import { defineConfig } from '@playwright/test';

export default defineConfig({
  reporter: [
    ['list'],
    ['@zest-pw/test/reporter'], // Add Zest reporter
  ],
  // ... other Playwright config
});
```

### 4. Write Your First Test

```typescript
import { test, expect } from '@zest-pw/test';

test('TC-001: Check the title', async ({ page }) => {
  
  await test.step('Go to the playwright website', async () => {
    await page.goto('https://playwright.dev/');
  });

  await test.step('Check the title', async () => {
    await expect(page).toHaveTitle(/Playwright/);
  });
});
```

### 5. Run Tests

```bash
npx playwright test
```

## ⚙️ Configuration

### Configuration File

The `zest.config.ts` file is automatically created when you install the package. You can customize it as needed:

```typescript
import { defineZestConfig } from '@zest-pw/test';

export default defineZestConfig({
  reporter: {
    // Save test results to JSON file
    saveJsonReport: true,
    
    // Output directory for reports
    outputDir: 'test-results',
    
    // Print test results to console
    printToConsole: false,
  },

  screenshots: {
    // Enable screenshot capture
    enabled: true,
    
    // Include screenshots in JSON report
    includeInReport: true,
    
    // Capture screenshots only on failure
    onlyOnFailure: false,
  },

  zephyr: {
    // Enable Zephyr Scale integration
    enabled: false,
    
    // Update test results in Zephyr after test run
    updateResults: false,
  },
});
```

For detailed configuration options, see [CONFIG.md](./CONFIG.md).

## 📸 Screenshots

Screenshots are automatically captured after each `test.step()` and:
- **Embedded in JSON report** as base64 (if `includeInReport: true`)
- **Named descriptively** based on step title and index
- **Include error screenshots** when tests fail

### Screenshot Settings

```typescript
screenshots: {
  enabled: true,           // Enable/disable screenshots
  includeInReport: true,   // Include in JSON report
  onlyOnFailure: false,    // Capture only on test failure
}
```

### Example Screenshot Output

```json
{
  "fileName": "step_1_go_to_the_playwright_website.png",
  "image": "image/png",
  "body": "base64_encoded_screenshot..."
}
```

## 📊 Test Reports

### JSON Report

Test results are automatically saved to `test-results/test-results.json`:

```json
{
  "tests": [
    {
      "testTitle": "Check the title",
      "testCaseKey": "TC-001",
      "steps": [
        {
          "stepTitle": "Go to the playwright website",
          "actualResult": [...],
          "statusName": "passed"
        }
      ]
    }
  ]
}
```

### Console Output

Enable console output in your config:

```typescript
reporter: {
  printToConsole: true,
}
```

## 🔄 Zephyr Scale Integration

### Setup

1. Add environment variables:

```bash
# .env
ZEPHYR_API_URL=https://api.zephyrscale.smartbear.com/v2/
ZEPHYR_API_KEY=your-api-key
ZEPHYR_TEST_CYCLE_KEY=TEST-CYCLE-123
```

2. Enable in configuration:

```typescript
zephyr: {
  enabled: true,
  updateResults: true,
}
```

3. Run tests - results will be automatically sent to Zephyr!

### How it Works

- Test case keys are extracted from test file names (e.g., `TC-001.spec.ts` → `TC-001`)
- After test execution, results are sent to Zephyr Scale
- Test steps are updated with actual results and screenshots

## 🛠️ Project Structure

```
your-project/
├── node_modules/
│   └── @zest-pw/
│       └── test/          # Installed package
├── tests/                 # Test files
│   ├── TC-001.spec.ts
│   └── TC-002.spec.ts
├── test-results/          # Test results
│   └── test-results.json
├── zest.config.ts         # Zest configuration (auto-created)
├── playwright.config.ts   # Playwright configuration
└── package.json
```

## 📝 Writing Tests

### Basic Test Structure

```typescript
import { test, expect } from '@zest-pw/test';

test('TC-001: Test description', async ({ page }) => {
  
  await test.step('Step 1 description', async () => {
    // Your test code
  });

  await test.step('Step 2 description', async () => {
    // Your test code
  });
});
```

### Test Naming Convention

Name your test files with test case keys for Zephyr integration:

```
tests/
├── TC-001.spec.ts   ✅ Good - extracts "TC-001"
├── TC-002.spec.ts   ✅ Good - extracts "TC-002"
└── login.spec.ts    ⚠️  Will not sync with Zephyr
```

### Best Practices

1. **Use descriptive step names** - they become screenshot filenames
2. **One test per file** - easier to manage and sync with Zephyr
3. **Keep steps atomic** - each step should be a single action or assertion
4. **Use test case keys** - for Zephyr integration

## 💡 Commands

```bash
# Initialize configuration (if not created automatically)
npx zest-pw-init

# Run all tests
npx playwright test

# Run specific test
npx playwright test tests/TC-001.spec.ts

# Run in headed mode
npx playwright test --headed

# Run in debug mode
npx playwright test --debug

# Run with UI
npx playwright test --ui

# Generate Playwright report
npx playwright show-report
```

## 🔧 Advanced Usage

### Custom Configuration per Environment

```typescript
const isDev = process.env.NODE_ENV === 'development';
const isCI = process.env.CI === 'true';

export default defineZestConfig({
  reporter: {
    printToConsole: isDev,
  },
  screenshots: {
    onlyOnFailure: isCI,
  },
  zephyr: {
    enabled: isCI,
    updateResults: isCI,
  }
});
```

### Accessing Configuration in Code

```typescript
import { getZestConfig } from '@zest-pw/test';

const config = getZestConfig();
console.log('Screenshots enabled:', config.screenshots.enabled);
```

### Programmatic Configuration

```typescript
import { defineZestConfig } from '@zest-pw/test';

export default defineZestConfig({
  reporter: {
    saveJsonReport: process.env.SAVE_REPORTS !== 'false',
    outputDir: process.env.REPORT_DIR || 'test-results',
  }
});
```

## 🐛 Troubleshooting

### Configuration file not created automatically

If `zest.config.ts` wasn't created after installation, run:

```bash
npx zest-pw-init
```

Or create it manually using the template from the Configuration section.

### Screenshots not appearing in report

Check your configuration:
```typescript
screenshots: {
  enabled: true,
  includeInReport: true,
}
```

### Zephyr integration not working

1. Verify environment variables are set
2. Check test case keys match Zephyr format
3. Enable Zephyr in configuration
4. Check API credentials and permissions

### JSON report not saved

Ensure configuration allows saving:
```typescript
reporter: {
  saveJsonReport: true,
}
```

### Import errors

Make sure you're importing from the installed package:

```typescript
// ✅ Correct
import { test, expect, defineZestConfig } from '@zest-pw/test';

// ❌ Incorrect (old local paths)
import { test, expect } from './zest-pw/fixtures/fixtures';
```

## 📚 Documentation

- [Configuration Guide](./CONFIG.md) - Detailed configuration options
- [Playwright Documentation](https://playwright.dev/) - Official Playwright docs
- [Zephyr Scale API](https://support.smartbear.com/zephyr-scale-cloud/api-docs/) - Zephyr API reference

## 🤝 Contributing

1. Fork the repository
2. Create a feature branch
3. Make your changes
4. Submit a pull request

## 📄 License

MIT License - see LICENSE file for details

Commit message:

Refactor package configuration and update dependencies
Updated package.json to change the Node.js engine requirement to >=18.0.0, adjusted Playwright dependency version to ^1.40.0, and removed the installation script. Modified README.md to clarify configuration setup and requirements. Enhanced tsconfig.json to include DOM library and adjusted strictness settings. Removed the install-config.js script as part of the configuration process.

README.md, after:

# Zest Playwright Test Framework

Advanced Playwright test framework with automatic screenshots, custom reporting, and Zephyr Scale integration.

## ✨ Features

- 📸 **Automatic Screenshots** - Capture screenshots after each test step
- 📊 **Custom JSON Reports** - Detailed test results with step information
- 🔄 **Zephyr Scale Integration** - Automatically update test results in Zephyr
- ⚙️ **Type-Safe Configuration** - Configure behavior via `zest.config.ts`
- 🎯 **Step-by-Step Tracking** - Detailed information about each test step
- 🖼️ **Base64 Screenshots in Reports** - Screenshots embedded directly in JSON

## 🚀 Quick Start

### Requirements

- Node.js >= 18.0.0
- Playwright (peer dependency)

### 1. Install the Package

```bash
npm install --save-dev @zest-pw/test
```

### 2. Configuration

Create the configuration file `zest.config.ts` in your project root manually.

The default configuration:

```typescript
import { defineZestConfig } from '@zest-pw/test';

export default defineZestConfig({
  reporter: {
    saveJsonReport: true,
    printToConsole: true,
    outputDir: 'test-results',
  },
  screenshots: {
    enabled: true,
    includeInReport: true,
    onlyOnFailure: false,
  },
  zephyr: {
    enabled: false,
    updateResults: false,
  },
});
```

### 3. Configure Playwright

Update your `playwright.config.ts`:

```typescript
import { defineConfig } from '@playwright/test';

export default defineConfig({
  reporter: [
    ['list'],
    ['@zest-pw/test/reporter'], // Add Zest reporter
  ],
  // ... other Playwright config
});
```

### 4. Write Your First Test

```typescript
import { test, expect } from '@zest-pw/test';

test('TC-001: Check the title', async ({ page }) => {
  
  await test.step('Go to the playwright website', async () => {
    await page.goto('https://playwright.dev/');
  });

  await test.step('Check the title', async () => {
    await expect(page).toHaveTitle(/Playwright/);
  });
});
```

### 5. Run Tests

```bash
npx playwright test
```

## ⚙️ Configuration

### Configuration File

The `zest.config.ts` file is automatically created when you install the package. You can customize it as needed:

```typescript
import { defineZestConfig } from '@zest-pw/test';

export default defineZestConfig({
  reporter: {
    // Save test results to JSON file
    saveJsonReport: true,
    
    // Output directory for reports
    outputDir: 'test-results',
    
    // Print test results to console
    printToConsole: false,
  },

  screenshots: {
    // Enable screenshot capture
    enabled: true,
    
    // Include screenshots in JSON report
    includeInReport: true,
    
    // Capture screenshots only on failure
    onlyOnFailure: false,
  },

  zephyr: {
    // Enable Zephyr Scale integration
    enabled: false,
    
    // Update test results in Zephyr after test run
    updateResults: false,
  },
});
```

For detailed configuration options, see [CONFIG.md](./CONFIG.md).

## 📸 Screenshots

Screenshots are automatically captured after each `test.step()` and:
- **Embedded in JSON report** as base64 (if `includeInReport: true`)
- **Named descriptively** based on step title and index
- **Include error screenshots** when tests fail

### Screenshot Settings

```typescript
screenshots: {
  enabled: true,           // Enable/disable screenshots
  includeInReport: true,   // Include in JSON report
  onlyOnFailure: false,    // Capture only on test failure
}
```

### Example Screenshot Output

```json
{
  "fileName": "step_1_go_to_the_playwright_website.png",
  "image": "image/png",
  "body": "base64_encoded_screenshot..."
}
```

## 📊 Test Reports

### JSON Report

Test results are automatically saved to `test-results/test-results.json`:

```json
{
  "tests": [
    {
      "testTitle": "Check the title",
      "testCaseKey": "TC-001",
      "steps": [
        {
          "stepTitle": "Go to the playwright website",
          "actualResult": [...],
          "statusName": "passed"
        }
      ]
    }
  ]
}
```

### Console Output

Enable console output in your config:

```typescript
reporter: {
  printToConsole: true,
}
```

## 🔄 Zephyr Scale Integration

### Setup

1. Add environment variables:

```bash
# .env
ZEPHYR_API_URL=https://api.zephyrscale.smartbear.com/v2/
ZEPHYR_API_KEY=your-api-key
ZEPHYR_TEST_CYCLE_KEY=TEST-CYCLE-123
```

2. Enable in configuration:

```typescript
zephyr: {
  enabled: true,
  updateResults: true,
}
```

3. Run tests - results will be automatically sent to Zephyr!

### How it Works

- Test case keys are extracted from test file names (e.g., `TC-001.spec.ts` → `TC-001`)
- After test execution, results are sent to Zephyr Scale
- Test steps are updated with actual results and screenshots

## 🛠️ Project Structure

```
your-project/
├── node_modules/
│   └── @zest-pw/
│       └── test/          # Installed package
├── tests/                 # Test files
│   ├── TC-001.spec.ts
│   └── TC-002.spec.ts
├── test-results/          # Test results
│   └── test-results.json
├── zest.config.ts         # Zest configuration (auto-created)
├── playwright.config.ts   # Playwright configuration
└── package.json
```

## 📝 Writing Tests

### Basic Test Structure

```typescript
import { test, expect } from '@zest-pw/test';

test('TC-001: Test description', async ({ page }) => {
  
  await test.step('Step 1 description', async () => {
    // Your test code
  });

  await test.step('Step 2 description', async () => {
    // Your test code
  });
});
```

### Test Naming Convention

Name your test files with test case keys for Zephyr integration:

```
tests/
├── TC-001.spec.ts   ✅ Good - extracts "TC-001"
├── TC-002.spec.ts   ✅ Good - extracts "TC-002"
└── login.spec.ts    ⚠️  Will not sync with Zephyr
```

### Best Practices

1. **Use descriptive step names** - they become screenshot filenames
2. **One test per file** - easier to manage and sync with Zephyr
3. **Keep steps atomic** - each step should be a single action or assertion
4. **Use test case keys** - for Zephyr integration

## 💡 Commands

```bash
# Run all tests
npx playwright test

# Run specific test
npx playwright test tests/TC-001.spec.ts

# Run in headed mode
npx playwright test --headed

# Run in debug mode
npx playwright test --debug

# Run with UI
npx playwright test --ui

# Generate Playwright report
npx playwright show-report
```

## 🔧 Advanced Usage

### Custom Configuration per Environment

```typescript
const isDev = process.env.NODE_ENV === 'development';
const isCI = process.env.CI === 'true';

export default defineZestConfig({
  reporter: {
    printToConsole: isDev,
  },
  screenshots: {
    onlyOnFailure: isCI,
  },
  zephyr: {
    enabled: isCI,
    updateResults: isCI,
  }
});
```

### Accessing Configuration in Code

```typescript
import { getZestConfig } from '@zest-pw/test';

const config = getZestConfig();
console.log('Screenshots enabled:', config.screenshots.enabled);
```

### Programmatic Configuration

```typescript
import { defineZestConfig } from '@zest-pw/test';

export default defineZestConfig({
  reporter: {
    saveJsonReport: process.env.SAVE_REPORTS !== 'false',
    outputDir: process.env.REPORT_DIR || 'test-results',
  }
});
```

## 🐛 Troubleshooting

### Configuration file setup

Create `zest.config.ts` manually in your project root using the template from the Configuration section.

### Screenshots not appearing in report

Check your configuration:
```typescript
screenshots: {
  enabled: true,
  includeInReport: true,
}
```

### Zephyr integration not working

1. Verify environment variables are set
2. Check test case keys match Zephyr format
3. Enable Zephyr in configuration
4. Check API credentials and permissions

### JSON report not saved

Ensure configuration allows saving:
```typescript
reporter: {
  saveJsonReport: true,
}
```

### Import errors

Make sure you're importing from the installed package:

```typescript
// ✅ Correct
import { test, expect, defineZestConfig } from '@zest-pw/test';

// ❌ Incorrect (old local paths)
import { test, expect } from './zest-pw/fixtures/fixtures';
```

## 📚 Documentation

- [Configuration Guide](./CONFIG.md) - Detailed configuration options
- [Playwright Documentation](https://playwright.dev/) - Official Playwright docs
- [Zephyr Scale API](https://support.smartbear.com/zephyr-scale-cloud/api-docs/) - Zephyr API reference

## 🤝 Contributing

1. Fork the repository
2. Create a feature branch
3. Make your changes
4. Submit a pull request

## 📄 License

MIT License - see LICENSE file for details
